---
layout: post
title:  "New Beginnings with Coding"
date:   2017-08-22 20:15:48 +0000
---


It was a tough decision to make when I began my path with Flatiron. The beginning of this 2017 year was full of career setbacks and obstacles. I was working at an ad agency for about 2-3 years. My position was supposed to be a foot in the door towards my goal of working in the strategy field. Things didn’t turn out the way I had hoped and I was practically stuck in the position doing mostly data entry and various other small projects with little to no professional growth outlooks. Amongst other issues, my health began to decline. 

During these tough moments I pushed myself to learn code, starting with HTML and CSS. I’m an artist and enjoy design user interfaces. This stemmed from my experience with countless hours of designing my MySpace page and communicating in forums/message boards. I enjoyed it and learned a lot, though little did I know that I could’ve made a career from doing just that. Plus, it wasn’t my first time learning to code. From what I can remember, my first time coding was in my 8th grade computer science class (in the year 2000). Mr. Stebbins had the class learn how to code on those 1980s Apple computers. You know, the ones with the big ol’ fat floppy discs and black screens with white pixel texts. Our goal throughout the class was to take an image we like, trace it on a provided grid, make simple calculations, and input those results into the computer. My completed project was the image of the Bob-omb from Super Mario Brothers. :]

My return to coding in 2016/2017 began with lessons on Codecademy, Skillcrush, Udacity, Khan Academy, and a few others. It brought me peace from my unhappiness with work. Sometimes you just know when you’re not being supported professionally towards your career growth or even valued for your efforts in a workplace. With that, came my choice to break up from my long relationship of hoping I’ll be an advertising professional. It hurt having to cut that line but once I did I felt free, optimistic, and positive. My only burden was the thought of the student loans I encountered that came with my graduate degree and goal of being an advertising professional. Life is full of failures - good or bad - depending on how it ended up serving you.

About 8 months later of teaching myself how to code, I chose to sign up for Flatiron School’s Online Full Stack Web Development program. I’m so glad I was awarded the Women Take Tech Scholarship upon enrollment. I woke up to the bling of my phone to such wonderful news. I’ve been working on the bootcamp courses early in the beginning but upon enrollment I began the Full Stack course starting off with the Introduction to Ruby courses. So far, I really enjoy the curriculum, even though I’m struggling to understand how to execute the labs (might just be a lot more learning to be done :] ). The support from instructors, classmates, and study groups have been very helpful and supportive. Communication with Flatiron has been wonderful. They’re timely and respectful. You get a transcript of your questions and responses from fellow supporters for your records if you ever need to return to them. I like being able to get real time help because watching videos and practicing coding on your own can only take you so far.

Here’s to my first blog on Flatiron. The future postings would be my journey throughout the courses. I hope I can figure it all out in time to start my new career.
